Documentation for WinCompat functionality (#5304)
MicrosoftDocs/PowerShell-Docs: reference/7.0/Microsoft.PowerShell.Core/About/about_Windows_PowerShell_Compatibility.md

---
keywords: powershell,cmdlet
locale: en-us

> ms.date: 1/10/2020

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ms.date: 01/10/2020
```

Author: fixed.

online version: https://docs.microsoft.com/powershell/module/microsoft.powershell.core/about/about_windows_powershell_compatibility?view=powershell-7&WT.mc_id=ps-gethelp
schema: 2.0.0
title: about_Windows_PowerShell_Compatibility
---
# About Group Policy Settings

## SHORT DESCRIPTION

> Describes the Windows PowerShell Compatibility funtionality for PowerShell

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Describes the Windows PowerShell Compatibility functionality for PowerShell 7.
```

## LONG DESCRIPTION

> Windows PowerShell Compatibility funtionality means that for modules in

Reviewer 2: PowerShell 7 does not natively support all Windows PowerShell modules, particularly those in the the `%windir%\system32\WindowsPowerShell\v1.0\Modules` folder. Modules in that folder which are not marked as comatible with PowerShell Core are loaded in a background remoting session that makes use of Windows PowerShell 5.1.  When this feature is invoked, PowerShell creates the PS Remoting Session and uses implicit remoting to create proxy functions for the commands in the module. Invoking the proxy function causes PowerShell to run the command within the remoting session.

Author: @joeyaiello FYI - consider this proposal, when you'll be doing the text editing.

the `%windir%\system32\WindowsPowerShell\v1.0\Modules` folder,
if the module manifest doesn’t indicate that module is compatible with
PowerShell Core then that module will be loaded in a background
Windows PowerShell 5.1 process and using implicit remoting reflected
into current PowerShell session.

Windows PowerShell Compatibility funtionality can be invoked in 3 ways:

1. Explicitly using module import with `-UseWindowsPowerShell` parameter

```powershell
Import-Module -Name ScheduledTasks -UseWindowsPowerShell

> ```

Reviewer: Indent this to line up under the 'E' in Explicitly

Author: fixed.

1. Implicitly using module import by module name or path

```powershell
Import-Module -Name ServerManager

> ```

Reviewer: Indent this to line up under the 'I' in Implicitly

Author: fixed.

1. Implicitly by command discovery / module autoload

```powershell
Get-WindowsFeature # this will autoload ServerManager module using Windows PowerShell Compatibility

> ```

Reviewer: Indent

Author: fixed.

To disable implicit Windows PowerShell Compatibility import (cases 2 and 3 above)

> one can use `DisableImplicitWinCompat` setting in PowerShell configuration file.

Reviewer 2: Can you point to where that is and how to set it?

> one can use `DisableImplicitWinCompat` setting in PowerShell configuration file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
you can use `DisableImplicitWinCompat` setting in PowerShell configuration file.
```

```powershell
$ConfigPath = "$PSHOME\DisableWinCompat.powershell.config.json"
'{"DisableImplicitWinCompat" : "False", "Microsoft.PowerShell:ExecutionPolicy": "RemoteSigned"}' | Out-File -Force $ConfigPath
pwsh -settingsFile $ConfigPath # Implicit Windows PowerShell Compatibility funtionality is Disabled in this PowerShell
```

> When a first module is imported using Windows PowerShell Compatibility funtionality

Reviewer 2: Is it worth pointing out that this session has a different transport type (ie Process vs Winrm) and provide details around such sessions?
Is there a way to manually create PS Remoting session using the Process transport?

Author: Added that it uses same transport as PS jobs.
"a way to manually create PS Remoting session using the Process transport" - only local that goes to Windows PS - `New-PSSession -UseWindowsPowerShell -Name MyWinPSSession`

a `WinPSCompatSession` remoting session is created (using the same transport that
PowerShell jobs use). This remoting session can be used for operations that

> do not work corrctly on de/serialized objects so that entire pipeline is executed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
do not work correctly on deserialized objects. The entire pipeline is executed
```

> in Windows PowerShell and only final result is returned.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
in Windows PowerShell and only the final result is returned.
```

```powershell
$s = Get-PSSession -Name WinPSCompatSession

> Invoke-Command -Session $s -ScriptBlock {"Running in Windows PowerShell version $($PSVersionTable.PSVersion)";Get-WinPSLiveObject | Set-WinPSLiveObject}

Reviewer 2: is it worthwhile to use real cmdlets rather than ones that may not exist?
When I ran this snippet, I got the (somewhat expected) error that the command was not found.

Author: It would be nice to have a real pipeline example with simple setup, but I don't have one at the top of my head.
Placed cmdlets in example into a comment to avoid the error.

```

> The background Windows PowerShell 5.1 process is created when a first module

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The background Windows PowerShell 5.1 process is created when the first module
```

is imported using Windows PowerShell Compatibility funtionality and closed
when the last such module is removed (using `Remove-Module`) or when

> PowerShell process exit.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
PowerShell process exits.
```

When a module is imported using Windows PowerShell Compatibility funtionality

> implicit remoting generates a proxy module in user `%Temp%` directory

Reviewer: Use `$env:Temp` notation rather than cmd-style environment variable.

Author: fixed.

> When a module is imported using Windows PowerShell Compatibility funtionality

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a module is imported using Windows PowerShell Compatibility functionality,
```

and imports this proxy module into current PowerShell session.

> So module's path (alog with `(Get-Module -Name ServerManager).PrivateData.ImplicitRemoting`

Reviewer 2: So the module's path (along with  `(Get-Module -Name ServerManager).PrivateData.ImplicitRemoting`

Author: fixed.

field) can be used to detect if a module was loaded using Windows PowerShell
Compatibility funtionality.

## LIMITATIONS

> Windows PowerShell Compatibility funtionality

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Windows PowerShell Compatibility functionality:
```

> 1. works only locally on Windows OS

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Only works locally on Windows OS
```

> 1. requires Windows PowerShell 5.1 installed on the system

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Requires that Windows PowerShell 5.1 is installed on the system
```

>    (can fix this by installing WMF 5.1 on earlier OSes)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   (Can be installed via [WMF 5.1](/powershell/scripting/wmf/setup/install-configure) on older OSes.)
```

1. operates on de/serialized cmdlet parameters and return values (not on live objects)

> 1. all modules imported on Windows PowerShell side share the same runspace

Reviewer 2: change this line to:
1. all modules imported into the Windows PowerShell remoting session share the same runspace.

Author: updated.

> 1. operates on de/serialized cmdlet parameters and return values (not on live objects)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Operates on serialized cmdlet parameters and return values (not on live objects)
```

> 1. all modules imported into the Windows PowerShell remoting session share the same runspace

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. All modules imported into the Windows PowerShell remoting session share the same runspace.
```
